Here's a rough ordering of the features based on implementation difficulty (easiest to hardest), considering your current codebase:
Tier 1: Easy (1-2 hours)

    Logout functionality - Clear auth cookies

    Message deletion - Add DELETE endpoint + DB query

    Basic rate limiting - Track requests per IP

    Dark/Light mode - CSS toggle + cookie storage

    Emoji picker - Client-side library integration

Tier 2: Moderate (Half-day)

    File uploads (images) - Multipart form handling

    User profiles - New DB table + simple profile page

    Markdown support - Client-side renderer (e.g., pulldown-cmark)

    Typing indicators - POST endpoint + frontend polling

    Private rooms - Add is_private flag to chat DB

Tier 3: Complex (1-2 days)

    WebSocket migration - Replace HTTP polling (tokio-tungstenite)

    Password reset flow - Email/SMTP integration

    Reactions system - New DB table for message reactions

    Admin dashboard - User/chat management UI

    Read receipts - Track message views per user

Tier 4: Advanced (3+ days)

    End-to-end encryption - Cryptographic message handling

    Voice/video chat - WebRTC integration

    Cluster deployment - Horizontal scaling with Redis

    Full audit logging - Track all moderation actions

Recommended Progression Path

    Start with Tier 1 to quickly improve usability:

        Add logout button (clear cookies)

        Implement message deletion (soft-delete in DB)

    Then tackle Tier 2 for richer features:

        File uploads will force you to handle binary data

        Private rooms introduce access control logic

    WebSockets (Tier 3) should be your first major overhaul:
    rust
    Copy

    // Example WebSocket upgrade in your current HTTP server
    use tokio_tungstenite::accept_async;

    async fn handle_websocket(stream: TcpStream) {
        let ws_stream = accept_async(stream).await.unwrap();
        // ... real-time message handling
    }

    Save Tiers 3-4 for when you need scalability/advanced features.

Critical Missing Piece

Your current polling-based chat (fetchMessage every second) is the biggest technical debt. WebSockets should be prioritized after basic features are stable.

Would you like a detailed implementation guide for any specific item? For example, I can show you exactly how to:

    Add file uploads with MIME type validation

    Implement WebSocket message broadcasting

    Set up a proper session store (instead of cookie-based auth)













    Your Rust chat server is coming along nicely! Here are some key features and improvements you could consider adding next:
1. Security Enhancements

    HTTPS Support: Add TLS/SSL encryption for secure communication

    CSRF Protection: Add tokens to prevent cross-site request forgery

    Input Sanitization: Properly sanitize all user inputs to prevent XSS attacks

    Password Security: Add password complexity requirements and consider using Argon2 instead of bcrypt

2. User Features

    User Authentication:

        Logout functionality

        Session expiration

        Remember me functionality

    User Profiles:

        Profile pages

        Avatar uploads

        Status messages

    Private Messaging: Direct user-to-user chats

    User Roles: Admin/moderator capabilities

3. Chat Features

    Message Editing/Deletion: Allow users to edit/delete their own messages

    Message History: Load older messages when scrolling up

    Typing Indicators: Show when users are typing

    Read Receipts: Show when messages have been read

    Reactions: Emoji reactions to messages

    File Uploads: Allow sharing images/files

    Markdown Support: Basic formatting in messages

4. Performance Improvements

    Database Connection Pooling: For better database performance

    Message Caching: Cache recent messages to reduce DB load

    WebSockets: Replace polling with real-time WebSocket connections

    Rate Limiting: Prevent abuse/spam

5. UI/UX Improvements

    Responsive Design: Make it work well on mobile devices

    Dark/Light Mode: User-selectable themes

    Notifications: Browser notifications for new messages

    Emoji Picker: Easy emoji insertion

    Better Message Formatting: Code blocks, quotes, etc.

6. Administration Features

    Admin Dashboard: View/manage users and chats

    Moderation Tools: Ban users, delete inappropriate messages

    Chat Room Management: Private/invite-only rooms, room permissions

7. Testing & Reliability

    Unit/Integration Tests: Especially for critical paths

    Error Handling: More comprehensive error handling and logging

    Load Testing: Ensure it can handle many concurrent users

8. Deployment Improvements

    Docker Support: For easier deployment

    Configuration Files: For server settings

    Metrics/Health Checks: Monitoring endpoints

Suggested First Steps:

    WebSocket Support - This would eliminate the need for polling and make the chat truly real-time

    Message Persistence - Currently messages are stored but you might want to add message history loading

    Basic Moderation - At least message deletion capabilities

    File Uploads - Start with image uploads that display in the chat

Would you like me to elaborate on how to implement any of these specific features?